
User Instructions for AMMPER v3.0

Instructions are for using AMMPER through Visual Studio Code

Downloading from GitHub 

1. On the NASA/AMMPER github repository, click the green "Code" button
and on the dropdown click "Download Zip" to download a zip file of the code.

2. Extract the zip file

3. In VS Code, navigate to the "Explorer" tab, then click "Open Volder"
Locate the extracted file and open it.



Setting Up a Virtual Enviornment in VS Code

4. Open a terminal 

5. Inside the terminal, type the command "python -m venv venv"

6. Then, type the command ".\venv\Scripts\activate"



Installing Libraries 

7. In "requirements.txt" within the AMMPER folder, you will find a 
list of required libraries. Version requirements are noted.

8. In the terminal, for each required library, type the command
"pip install library-name" For specific versions, type 
"pip install library-name==versionnumber"

9. Once all libraries are installed, AMMPER is ready to run



Using AMMPER

10. Open the AMMPER.py script. In the upper-right corner, click the play button

11. In the terminal, the user will be prompted to choose simulation
parameters. Follow prompts. Simulation will begin once parameters all are set. 

12. When simulation is complete, terminal will present "Simulated completed" as well
as simulation time in seconds. Simulations time will vary depending on complexity of 
parameters. 

13. In your explorer tab, a "results" folder will be present, here you find a subfolder containing
simulation plots, CSVs, and information. subfolder is titled the current date and time.



Interpreting results

14. CSVs can be exported for interpretation and graphing. Coloums are as follows:

    Generation, X pos, Y pos, Z pos, Health state number.

    X, Y, Z indicates position in plot

    Cell heath numbers are as follows:
    1 = Healthy
    2 = Damaged yet viable
    3 = Necrotic
    4 = Apoptotic 

    Data is written in scientific notation. 

15. Plots are located in the "plots" folder. There is one plot per each of the 15 generations.
Plots indicate cells, their health and radiation tracks in the testing spcae. 

    Cells are indicated as circles
    Health markers are:
    Blue = Healthy,
    Purple = Damaged yet viable 
    Yellow = Apoptotic
    Orange = Nectrotic 

    Green lines/dots indicate radiation tracks, and shapes will vary depending on radiation type.

For more info on AMMPER, see AMMPER_v3.0_info.txt